"Bad Religion" is a song by American singer-songwriter Frank Ocean, released as a single in 2012. The song is a personal account of Ocean's experience with unrequited love, and addresses themes of heartbreak and longing. The lyrics make reference to the idea of a "bad religion" as a metaphor for the kind of love that is ultimately detrimental and destructive.

The first verse of "Bad Religion" begins with Frank Ocean in a taxi and asking the driver to “be [his] shrink for the hour”. The word "shrink" is often used to describe someone who gives psychological and emotional support. This suggests that Frank is in need of this support and has had to resort to somebody unqualified. He sings “leave the meter running”, suggesting that he thinks that it will take a long time and will pay for the journey no matter how long it takes. This indicates the mental struggle he is undergoing which is further supported when he asks the driver to “just outrun the demons”. “Demons” represent the opposite of religion, and demonstrates that Frank has strayed far from faith and has become overrun by what he calls “demons”. From this, you can infer that this is what he is referring to when he sings the words “bad religion”, as the religion he is a part of is bringing him demons. Later in the track, Frank sings “if it brings me to my knees, It’s a bad religion”, and he is pictured on his knees pleading for his suffering to end. Frank being on his knees has connotations of prayer, but he is praying to a “bad religion” which brings him pain”. This truly demonstrates the clutch that love can have on somebody.

Frank mentions that the driver said “Allahu Akbar”, which means “God is the greatest” in Arabic. This demonstrates that the driver doesn’t know how to help Frank, and says that God will solve his problems. However, Frank replies with “don’t curse me”, possibly saying this because he already has a religion he is struggling with (that being his love for another man) and that he can’t handle another one. You could also assume that he reacted in this way because he is in love with another man and Islam forbids acting on homosexuality, trapping him further and therefore being a curse.

Frank describes his unrequited love as a "bad religion" and compares it to a “one-man cult”, suggesting that he is completely devoted to someone who does not love him in return. Frank also mentions that he feels like he has “three lives balanced on [his] head like steak knives”, suggesting that he feels as if he is balancing 3 lives at once. This is a demonstration of how much Frank’s problems are affecting him, as he equates the stress to that which would come with living three lives. In the next line, Frank sings “I can’t tell you the truth about my disguise”, most likely referring to his hidden homosexuality. Lots of people in the queer community often find it necessary to have a disguise, as some people will see and treat them differently otherwise. Frank may feel this way here, as he is talking to a taxi driver of Islamic faith, a religion that prohibits acting on homosexuality. Frank feels as if he is trapped in this situation, showing that unrequited love often takes over people’s lives and leaves them helpless. Even his last resort makes him feel trapped and helpless. In the chorus, Frank repeatedly sings the phrase "I can never make him love me," expressing a desire for them to return his feelings. Frank’s use of the word “never” supports the idea that he feels helpless in this situation.

In conclusion, Frank Ocean’s Bad Religion is an emotional and powerful song which tackles unrequited love and the struggles that come with it. The image of Frank in a taxi releasing all of his stress and emotions feels almost like a confession booth. The song perfectly demonstrates the effects that love can have on people, and how unrequited love in particular can take over somebody’s life.
