‘Mr. Lonely’ is the second half of the 10th track - 911 / Mr. Lonely - of ‘Flower Boy’, Tyler, The Creator’s 4th studio album which explores expression, love and success. This track is made up of one solo verse which Tyler raps. The verse has a nihilistic but panicked tone which is reflected in Tyler’s lyricism and voice. This immediately communicates Tyler/Mr. Lonely’s perspective on the themes that are discussed in the verse. The song is written from the perspective of a character called “Mr. Lonely”, who we are introduced to at the beginning of 911. Tyler’s personas play a big part in his albums including all of the promotion which leads up to it, so I believe that it is important to pay attention to how he uses them in his music.

The verse begins with “They say the loudest in the room is weak, “I say the loudest in the room is prolly the loneliest in the room (That’s me)”. Tyler labels himself as “the loudest in the room”, which is who he says to be “the loneliest one in the room”. This idea of Tyler having a boisterous personality, yet being lonely, is continued when he describes himself as an “attention seeker”, “so fuckin’ lonely” and “such a fuckin’ phony”, demonstrating Tyler’s self-critical nature. You may have seen Tyler in viral videos on the internet, as he often plays with comedic characters and has even produced his own TV shows based around them, so it is fair to say that Tyler is experienced with his character design and using it in his art.

Mr. Lonely’s first reference to a car is when Tyler compares himself to the doors of a Lamborghini. He raps “My heart is low, it’s real low, it’s so low, you can’t lift me up, I’m like Gallardo”. The Gallardo is one of the few models of Lamborghini which doesn’t feature butterfly doors. This notion degrades Mr. Lonely’s character even further where he is comparing himself to an inanimate object, dehumanising him. You could assume that the way Mr. Lonely describes himself is due to the way he has been treated by those around him, leading to the listener empathising with the character and better understanding the emotion conveyed through the song. After the listener is given a glimpse into Tyler’s mental state, Tyler makes a playful reference to Elon Musk where he says “crashed the McLaren, bought me a Tesla”. Elon Musk had a car crash in 2000 and shortly after, invested in Tesla. This could represent materialism and excessive wealth and is another reference to cars in Tyler’s music. Directly addressing the listener, he says “I know you sick of me talking bout cars, but what the fuck else do you want from me? That is the only thing keepin’ me company”. Mr. Lonely only has his material possessions and may assume the listener is sick of him talking about cars, because he himself is sick of his materialistic lifestyle, where he only makes purchases to “fill the void”. This suggests that his purchases are an attempt to recover from or make up for something, most likely loneliness.

Later in the verse, Tyler reflects on his loneliness and shares his confusion, stating that “I got the talent, the face and the funds”, wondering why he is lonely despite his possesions. Tyler plays on a reference to ‘Snow White’ with “Mirror, mirror on the wall (Who) The loneliest of them all (Me)”. Tyler likens Mr. Lonely to an antagonistic character, suggesting that he has negative feelings towards himself, most likely due to the fact that he sees himself as the cause of his loneliness. Tyler then references cupid, blaming his misfortune on Cupid and saying that he is “actin’ stupid”. Another song on Flower Boy, See You Again, also makes reference to Cupid in the line “Cupid hit me, Cupid hit me with precision”, giving the impression that Tyler was quite literally struck by love. There is a large juxtaposition between Tyler’s attitude towards Cupid as a symbol of love towards the beginning of the album and his attitude at the end of the album. See You Again tells the story of a love interest of Tyler’s who he must part with. This track is filled with references to love and massively contrasts the themes of Mr. Lonely, forming an emotional narrative throughout Flower Boy. This could be Tyler’s take on the effects of fame on the individual, and how riches can actually damage relationships rather than improve them, as some may believe. In ‘November’, the track which follows ‘Mr. Lonely’, Tyler sings about reminiscing on the past and wanting to travel back in time. This suggests that once Tyler becomes Mr. Lonely, he longs to go back to his old self who was full of love and had people to give it to.

To finish the track, Mr. Lonely asks an unknown person to “check in on me sometime, ask me how I’m really doin’”, as a final call for help.