The 12th track on Tyler, The Creator’s ‘Flower Boy’, November, starts with soft vocals which sing “Feel a way, whoa, Feel a way, November”. This alludes to what the word November means in this song. It is used to refer to a feeling associated with a time period.

In Tyler’s first verse, he repeats the phrase “Take me back to November”, and the line that follows it, “Hawaiian shirts in the winter, cold water, cold water” alludes to how Tyler spent his winters in Los Angeles where he grew up, where you can wear “Hawaiian shirts” during November. One of the motifs of Flower Boy is the idea of growing and developing as a person. Track 2 - “Where This Flower Blooms” - explores the idea of self worth and staying true to oneself through expression. In “November”, Tyler could be looking back on his past and where grew up as an attempt to reconnect with his true self. The second part of Track 10, “Mr. Lonely”, explores the struggles of fame and the idea of covering pain and emotion up with materialistic purchases. “November” could be depicting the situation where the same character who is represented in “Mr. Lonely”, could be looking back into their past and realising that they are longing to go back to simpler times where Hawaiian shirts in the winter was a luxury, as opposed to the supercars which Mr. Lonely flaunts.

The next verse is a hysterical spurt of paranoia, where Tyler lists his worries which have come with his rise to fame and success. “What if my accountant ain’t payin’ my taxes”, is a key example of where Tyler contrasts the luxuries of his new life in stardom with his internal worries. Where the majority of people wouldn’t pay an accountant to do their taxes for them, Tyler states his worries and lack of trust in this luxury. Tyler continues to express this paranoia, “Fuck, what if I get stuck?”, “What if I lost it all and ended up back in Ladera”. It interests me how Tyler combines flaunting wealth with anxiety and paranoia throughout ‘Flower Boy’, bringing a sense  of reality to a genre known for flaunting cars and wealth. Tyler subverts this expectation by doing the same thing but explaining the complications and his feelings towards the lifestyle. This verse ends with Tyler asking “Tell me, what’s your November? Is it a person?” and says that his “was the summer, 06 I remember the…” and he is cut off by a car horn. Here, Tyler gives more insight into what ‘November’ means to him, it could be a person or for him a point in time - Summer 2006. This is followed by Tyler referring to a car journey, saying “What if I thought the brake was the gas? What if I crashed? What if these deep thoughts was my last? Let me pull over, quick”, leading into the next verse beginning “And drive back to November”. The second verse tells the story of Tyler getting overwhelmed by his thoughts and worries associated with his fame and success. An image of Tyler crashing his car is brought to the listener at the end, which leads into the next verse where he longs to “go back to November”. By this time, the significance of “November” is clear. It is a memory which is free of worry and is a safe space to look back on.

Now that the listener understands what Tyler is referring to when he says “November”, he introduces them to his friends, who share their personal ‘November’s. “My November was those Odd Future Sundays, where we used to just skate all day”, “My November was seeing Erykah Badu perform”, “2014, Miami 43rd Street, every day was November”. This track explores a really interesting concept. A moment which someone might long to go back to when they are overwhelmed by the present.

The fourth verse features Tyler repeating the phrase “Take me back”, which leads into the fifth and final verse, where Tyler is writing a text message to a love interest who he “wrote a song about” and who he eventually decides to call “so you can hear it”. The song ends with a sound snippet of a voicemail machine stating that no one answered the phone, leading into ‘Glitter’ which is a song about Tyler’s love interest.

Ultimately, ‘November’ is a track which explores memories and encourages the reader to think back to find their November.