Super Rich Kids is the 7th track on Frank Ocean’s channel ORANGE and features Earl Sweatshirt. It explores the lifestyle of rich children who are neglected by their parents and live a life full of drugs and alcohol due to their financial freedom. Track 6 - ‘Sweet Life’ explores similar themes.

The song begins with the chorus, “Too many bottles of this wine we can’t pronounce”. Here, Frank speaks from the perspective of one of the “super rich kids” the song focuses on. The idea that they can’t pronounce the name of the wine they are drinking demonstrates that they aren’t capable of truly appreciating it. This could also represent their inability to appreciate the money they have been brought up with. This is where you will begin to see links between Super Rich Kids and Sweet Life, both tracks following similar themes to do with nepotism and fortune. You could even suggest that both tracks describe the life of the same person, but at different times. Next, Frank sings “Too many bowls of that green, no Lucky Charms”, referring to marijuana. “Green” in a bowl may be associated with the bright coloured cereal Lucky Charms, but Frank denies that the “Green” is a childhood cereal. This indicates that the “Super Rich Kids” have been deprived of childhood and are instead partaking in drug abuse.

Frank sings “The maids come around too much, Parents ain’t around enough”, suggesting that the family is quite disconnected, as the maids visit more often than the parents. These kind of family problems can cause huge problems for children, and often times will result in issues in later life. You can assume that the super rich kids are drinking alcohol and abusing drugs as a way to distract themselves from the problems in their lives. The idea that the “maids come around too much” could also suggest that the super rich kids are often partying and their home gets dirty and untidy and the maids are on call. This is another connection to Sweet Life, where Frank sings “You’ve had a landscaper and a housekeeper since you were born”. You could infer that these maids that the individual has had “since [they] were born” have stayed around and seen the development of their life, from the falsely secure ‘Sweet Life‘ to their reckless and ungrateful life.

“Too many joy rides in daddy’s Jaguar” - Frank sings about joy rides which is defined as “a fast and dangerous ride in a stolen vehicle”. This suggests that the rich kid has stolen their father’s car and are driving it around carelessly. He then goes on to sing “too many white lies and white lines”, “white lines” being cocaine. When Frank says “white lies”, we can assume he is referring to when the rich kids lie to their absent parents about what they’re doing with their money and that they’re not aware of the drug and alcohol abuse.

This verse ends with Frank singing “Super rich kids with nothing but loose ends, Super rich kids with nothing but fake friends”. “Loose ends” is a term used to mark the rich kids’ lack of achievement. Even if they have goals, they wouldn’t have an incentive to follow through with them due to their financial freedom. This often happens to people who grow up wealthy and means that they find themselves stuck with no ambition to work or earn their own money. Additionally, you could infer that these “fake friends” are only around because of the money. They are tagging along with the rich kid’s lifestyle, piggybacking off of their lifestyle for their own enjoyment. 

In verse 1, Frank sings “start my day up on the roof, There’s nothing like this type of view”. The rich kid is picture on the roof of their home, admiring the landscapes around them. This admiration comes as a surprise as in the chorus, the rich kids are portrayed as ungrateful and spoilt, but Frank subverts this impression by demonstrating that the kids are aware of the beauty of their neighbourhood. However, this could also be seen as them bragging about the fact that their view is one of a kind and possibly not truly appreciating it, they only appreciate the exclusivity. You could also link this to Sweet Life, where Frank describes the neighbourhood as being a “domesticated paradise” with “palm trees and pools”. Next, he sings “Point the clicker at the tube, I prefer expensive news”, when Frank says “clicker” and “tube” he is referring to the remote control and the television. When Frank says “expensive news”, he is using the plural of “new” rather than the news on the television. He then lists these new things in the next 3 lines - “New car, new girl, New ice, new glass, New watch, good times babe”. Lots of these things are materialistic objects which reinforces the idea that the rich kids are spoilt and spend their money wastefully.

Frank Ocean then sings “we’ll both be high, the help don’t stare, They just walk by, they must don’t care”, referring to the maids as “help”. He creates an image of the rich kids partying and the maids cleaning up around them “walk[ing] by”. This verse ends with him singing “A million one, a million two, A hundred more will never do” - the rich kids are so used to copious amounts of money that “a hundred more” will not fix their problems. This could be linked to the bridge where Frank sings “Real love, I’m searching for a real love”. “Real” contrasts when Frank sings about “fake friends” in the chorus. Despite the rich kid’s luxury lifestyle, they yearn for true love, something that no amount of money can buy.

Next is a rap verse from Earl Sweatshirt, another artist from the group Odd Future, which is written from the perspective of one of the “bratty” kids. Earl raps “close your eyes to what you can’t imagine”, possibly referencing the rich’s attitude to problems the non-rich may have and anything below them. You could also say that “close your eyes” and “what you can’t imagine” are both phrases which refer to death. This is foreshadowing the death which Frank describes in his second verse. Earl raps about being “the Xanny-gnashing Caddy-smashing”, with “Xanny” being a reference to the drug xanax. “Caddy-smashing” refers to him and his friends driving Cadillacs with little care and “smashing” them due to their reckless behaviour. He also says that “Pappy done latch-keyed us”, referring to children who come home to an empty house. You could infer that this “latchkey” has resulted in their drug filled, reckless lifestyle. To finish his verse, he says “Don’t belive us, Treat us like we can’t erupt”, implying that people don’t believe that it is possible for them to have problems because it is assumed that they can fix anything with their wealth. “Erupt” could be in reference to their “caddy-smashing” and rash behaviour.

In Frank’s final verse, we are brought back to the rooftop with him singing “We end our day up on the roof, I say I’ll jump I never do”. This brings the day full circle and demonstrates a change in attitude, where previously he was admiring the view from their home, but now he is talking about jumping from the roof. He continues by stating that “when I’m drunk I act a fool”, foreshadowing that it is very possible that he will do something foolish, as he is drunk. “Talking ‘bout, do they sew wings on tailored suits” is a powerful line which essentially covers all of the themes throughout the track. It brings the idea that just because the super rich kids can afford “tailored suits”, they aren’t past mental problems. Despite his money, he is contemplating jumping from the roof. “Wings” could be a religious refernce, where Frank is asking if he has a place in heaven. The idea that he is talking about wings brings forward this idea of jumping from the roof, where the wings would give him an escape from the fall. This escalates in the next few lines where Frank sings “I’m on that ledge, she grabs my arm, She slaps my hand, It’s good times, yeah”. Here, we are given an image of Frank falling off of a ledge, supposedly on the roof of his home, and somebody catching him by the arm, who then slaps his hand as a way to tell him off or discipline him for almost falling. But then his “sleeve rips off, I slip, I fall, The market’s down like 60 stories”. We are provided with a description of Frank’s expensive tailored suit ripping and leading to him falling off of the ledge. “The market’s down like 60 stories” could describe many things. “60 stories” gives us an idea of how high he is falling from and that the “market”, which could be a reference to the working class, is at the bottom and where he is falling to. Alternatively, you could say that Frank is referencing the stock market, and we are therefore given an image of a failed stockbroker committing suicide from the top of an office block. Frank sings “My silver spoon has fed me good”, which could be talking about his inherited money and how it helped him lead a “good” life. This is supported in the next line where he sings about “a million” once again. However, “silver spoon” could also be in reference to heroin use which may have led him to his suicide. Finally, Frank sings “Close my eyes and feel the crash” - an emotive line which takes the listener back to when Earl says “close your eyes for what you can’t imagine”, seeing Frank do exactly what Earl had said. Frank prepares himself to feel the crash into the ground where the “market” is. “Crash” could also be in reference to what can happen to people after the effects of drugs wears off.

The song finishes with another chorus, repeating the lines about priceless wine and joy rides in a Jaguar, possible offering a recap of sorts to the lifestyle that led the super rich kid to suicide. Finally, the outro has Frank singing “Real love, ain’t that something rare, I’m searching for a real love” which can be seen as his final words, a message that money can’t buy total happiness and bliss in life.

In Sweet Life and Super Rich Kids, both characters are portrayed as rich since birth. You could even suggest that it is in fact the same person being described in both songs, just at different points in their lives. You could say that Sweet Life highlights this person’s false sense of security with the line “why see the world, when you’ve got the beach”, and that Super Rich Kids is a display of the harmful results of their ignorance. You could say that Super Rich Kids is the a depiction of this person’s downfall and realisation that their money can’t give them everything.
