Sweet life is the 4th track from Frank Ocean’s ‘channel ORANGE’, his first studio album. Frank was previously signed as a writer for Def Jam Records, where he would write for the biggest pop stars at the time. With this album, Ocean proved to the music industry that he was more than just a writer. This track focuses on an individual with great privilege and explores their wealthy lifestyle.

The first verse starts with “The best song wasn’t the single, but you weren’t either, Living in Ladera Heights, the black Beverly Hills”. Here, Frank states that the subject of the song is a very wealthy person who lives in Ladera Heights - an LA neighbourhood which is often referred to as the black Beverly Hills. This immediately gives the listener the impression that this song will be about luxury and wealth. He then goes on to describe it as “domesticated paradise” with “palm trees and pools”. Frank sets the scene of the track, describing a dream neighbourhood and goes on to describe the lifestyle of those living there. “Swallow the pill, keeping it surreal” suggests that those living in Ladera Heights may use their wealth to escape any of their problems, in the form of drug abuse. He then describes their freedom when he says “whatever you like, whatever feels good, whatever takes your mountain high”. The subject of this song is a person who has the luxury of escaping whatever troubles they face with their money, possibly demonstrating envy in Frank. This is supported when in the next line, he compares this person’s luxuries to his own possessions, “My TV ain’t HD, thats too real”. This gives the impression that Frank may be jealous of this person’s freedom and wealth. However, Frank then lists “grapevine, mango, peaches, and limes” and describes this as “the sweet life”. This demonstrates Frank’s more mature approach to life, where he is not blinded by his wealth and has chosen to value the natural luxuries of life. This introduces an interesting perspective to the music industry, where people often refer to materialistic possessions when talking about a “sweet life” or luxury in general.

The second verse of Sweet Life consists of Frank repeating “sweet life, sweet life” as the instrumental builds up. The repetition of the phrase “sweet life” creates emphasis on what Frank believes to be the sweet life. This verse serves less as a storytelling device but more as a way to shed some light on the instrumental as it builds up from soft drums and a simple melody to a more grand composition. Different elements are added to the instrumental over the course of the second verse. This perfectly sets Frank up for the third verse.

An alternative approach to the second verse would be that it could potentially be a representation of the subject individual attempting to convince themselves that the life they are living, which is full of materialistic pleasures, is truly a “sweet life” as they repeat the phrase. This part of the song interests me as it could be a link to “Super Rich Kids”, a song which features rapper Earl Sweatshirt and appears later in the album. The track explores a group of kids with rich parents who party and partake in drug abuse. At one point, the character who Frank Ocean sings from the perspective of says ”We end our day up on the roof, I say I’ll jump I never do”, giving the impression that they are abusing drugs as an attempt to distract themselves from their troubles. This behaviour is similar to that of the character depicted in Sweet Life. As Frank Ocean builds these characters throughout his album, he also builds the world in which they live. This world building dramatically improves the listening experience of channel ORANGE.

After the instrumental has built up, Frank sings “you’ve had a landscaper and a housekeeper since you were born”, detailing in the individual’s privilege and the environment in which they were brought up and again, contrasting Frank’s vision of the sweet life. However, Frank is understanding of their lifestyle and states that “the star shine always kept you warm, so why see the world, when you got the beach?”. He knows the security that the “star shine” provides this person and uses the rhetorical question “so why see the world, when you got the beach?” to explain their lifestyle. You could say that Frank almost pities this person in the way they approach the “sweet life” while also understanding their position.

Sweet Life is a song which explores themes of wealth and luxury while also telling the story of somebody who is aiming to understand a lifestyle different from their own. I believe that lots of people find it hard to understand different lifestyles and may look down on those who lead their lives in a different way and I think that Sweet Life challenges this idea and encourages people to do otherwise.
